docs/administration/configuring-yoda.md, before:

---
parent: Administration Tasks
title: Configuring Yoda
nav_order: 0
---
# Configuring Yoda
Instructions on how to configure a (new) Yoda instance.

## 1. Create new environment
This first step is optional.
You can configure a (new) Yoda instance in an existing environment or create a new environment.
A `development` environment is available with two example instances.

To create a new environment make a new directory under `environments`.
For example a production environment:
```bash
mkdir environments/production
```

We call our new instance 'yoda', so create a new instance directory:
```bash
mkdir environments/production/yoda
```

In this new instance directory two directories are needed, on for the Yoda instance variables (group_vars) and one for host specific variables (host_vars).
```bash
mkdir environments/production/yoda/group_vars
mkdir environments/production/yoda/host_vars
```

## 2. Add hosts of new Yoda instance
Hosts of a Yoda instance are defined in the [Ansible inventory](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/intro_inventory.html) file 'hosts'.
For the development instance 'full' this inventory can be found in `environments/development/full/hosts`.
In the inventory the hosts of an instance are defined, their functional roles and to which groups they belong.

Example configuration defining the and functional roles of an instance called 'yoda':
```bash
[yoda:children]
yoda_portal
yoda_database
yoda_icat
yoda_resource
yoda_public
yoda_eus

[yoda_portal]
host1.yoda.test

# leave this out when using an existing database for ICAT
[yoda_database]
host1.yoda.test

[yoda_icat]
host1.yoda.test

[yoda_resource]
host2.yoda.test

[yoda_public]
host3.yoda.test

[yoda_eus]
host4.yoda.test
```

Add the new functional roles of the instance to the corresponding groups.
For example:
```bash
[portals:children]
yoda_portal

# leave this out when using an existing database for ICAT
[databases:children]
yoda_database

[icats:children]
yoda_icat

[resources:children]
yoda_resource

[publics:children]
yoda_public

[eus:children]
yoda_eus
```

It is possible to deploy davrods to a separate host by adding a davrods host and group:
```bash
[yoda:children]
yoda_portal
yoda_davrods
yoda_database
yoda_icat
yoda_resource
yoda_public
yoda_eus

[yoda_davrods]
host5.yoda.test

[davrods:children]
yoda_davrods
```

Last step to add the hosts of a new Yoda instance is to create configuration files for every new host.
In development environment these configuration files are placed in `environments/development/hosts`.
For example, for host 'host1.yoda.test' a configuration file is created:
```bash
touch environments/development/host_vars/host1.yoda.test
```

And place the basic host configuration in the new file:
```bash
---
ansible_host: host1.yoda.test
```

## 3. Configure (new) Yoda instance
To configure a (new) Yoda instance we have to edit the instance configuration in the Yoda instance variables directory (group_vars).
In case of a new Yoda instance we can copy a configuration of a full development (`environments/development/full/`) instance as base.
The configuration is split in several parts. Below an overview of these parts and the configuration options available.

### Ansible configuration

Variable   | Description
-----------|---------------------------------------------
ansible_user                 | Administrative user on instance for Ansible
ansible_ssh_private_key_file | Path to private key file of administrative user
repo_only                    | Only download packages from repos

Note: if one of these variables are different for a host then define them in the corresponding host specific variables file (host_vars).

### Yoda configuration

Variable   | Description
-----------|---------------------------------------------
instance                     | Name of Yoda instance, as defined in hosts file
yoda_version                 | Git branch, for example: development or release-0.9.7
yoda_environment             | Yoda environment: development, testing, acceptance or production
yoda_portal_fqdn             | Yoda Portal fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
yoda_davrods_fqdn            | Yoda Davrods WebDAV fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
yoda_davrods_anonymous_fqdn  | Yoda Davrods anonymous WebDAV fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
yoda_enable_httpd            | Whether to enable the httpd service (boolean, default value: true). Set to false if manual actions are needed before starting the web server (e.g. mounting encrypted volumes)
httpd_log_forwarded_for      | Whether to log X-Forwarded-For headers in Apache logs (boolean, default value: false). This logs source IP addresses of requests if requests to the Yoda web portal and/or WebDAV interface are routed via a load balancer.

### iRODS configuration

Variable                     | Description
-------------------------------------|---------------------------------
irods_admin                          | iRODS admin username
irods_password                       | iRODS admin password
irods_database_user                  | The iRODS database username
irods_database_password              | The password for the iRODS database username
irods_database_enable_yoda_indexes   | Enable indexes to speed up Yoda search operations (default: false). This is mainly useful for medium-sized and large environments (millions of data objects or more). Please note that the indexes can take up a significant amount of diskspace (rough estimate: 10-30% increase in database size). They will be created asynchronously. This can take some time on existing environments with a significant amount of data, and temporarily decrease performance.
irods_zone                           | The name of the iRODS Zone
irods_icat_fqdn                      | iRODS iCAT fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
irods_database_fqdn                  | iRODS database fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
irods_resource_fqdn                  | iRODS resource fully qualified domain name (FQDN). Don't define this variable if you have multiple resource servers.
irods_default_resc                   | iRODS default resource name
irods_resc_trigger_pol               | List of text patterns for matching non-primary resources where changes also need to trigger policies (e.g. asynchronous replication). Example: ["^testResc$","^myResc$"]
irods_ssl_verify_server              | Verify TLS certificate, use 'cert' for acceptance and production
irods_resources                      | Definition of iRODS resources of this Yoda instance
irods_service_type                   | Possible values: 'sysv' (System V) or 'systemd'
irods_max_open_files                 | Maximum number of open files for iRODS service (only effective when irods_service_type is set to 'systemd')
irods_enable_service                 | Whether to enable the iRODS service. Set to false if manual actions are needed before starting iRODS, e.g. mounting encrypted volumes (only effective when irods_service_type is set to 'systemd')
irods_rum_job_enabled                | Whether to enable the daily RUM job for removing unused metadata entries (default: true)
irods_rum_job_hour                   | Time to run RUM job - hour (default: 20)
irods_rum_job_minute                 | Time to run RUM job - minute (default: 0)

### Research module configuration

Variable   | Description
-----------|---------------------------------------------
default_yoda_schema          | Default Yoda XML scheme: default-0 or default-1
enable_revisions             | Enable revisions: yes (1) or no (0)
enable_async_replication     | Enable asynchronous replication cronjob: yes (1) or no (0)
revision_strategy            | Revision strategy: A, B, J or Simple
yoda_random_id_length        | Length of random ID to add to persistent identifier
yoda_prefix                  | Prefix for internal portion of persistent identifier
update_rulesets              | Update already installed rulesets with git
override_resc_install_rulesets | Install rulesets on server even if it is a resource server (default: false). This override parameter can be used on resource servers that have an additional role, e.g. DavRODS server
update_schemas               | Update already installed schemas, formelements and stylesheets: yes (1) or no (0)
credential_files             | Location of Yoda credentials files
temporary_files              | List of temporary files for cleanup functionality

### Deposit module configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------
enable_deposit               | Enable deposit module

### Intake module configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------
enable_intake                | Enable intake module
intake_groups                | List of intake groups (without the "grp-intake-" prefix)

### Datarequest module configuration

Variable                       | Description
-------------------------------|---------------------
enable_datarequest             | Enable datarequest module
datarequest_help_contact_name  | Help contact name
datarequest_help_contact_email | Help contact email address

### OpenSearch configuration

Variable                       | Description
-------------------------------|---------------------
enable_open_search             | Enable OpenSearch and indexing plugin
opensearch_server              | FQDN of the OpenSearch server (typically the provider)

### Yoda notifications configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
send_notifications           | Enable notifications: yes (1) or no (0)
notifications_sender_email   | Notifiations sender email address
notifications_reply_to       | Notifiations Reply-To email address

### Yoda internal SMTP settings configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
smtp_server                  | SMTP server to send mail to
smtp_username                | SMTP server username
smtp_password                | SMTP server password
smtp_auth                    | Whether to use SMTP authentication (true/false, default: true)
smtp_starttls                | Whether to force StartTLS on non-SMTP connections (true/false, default: true)

### PostgreSQL database configuration

Variable                               | Description
---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------
postgresql_max_connections             | Maximum number of database connections (default: 100)
postgresql_shared_buffers              | Amount of memory database should use for shared buffers. Rule of thumb: set to 25% of memory on dedicated database server; on a shared server, it should probably be lower. Default value: 32 MB.
postgresql_work_mem                    | Maximum amount of worker memory. Rule of thumb: increasing worker memory can help with improving performance, but it is necessary to ensure that sufficient memory is available, considering the maximum number of database connections. Default value: 1 MB.
postgresql_maintenance_work_mem        | Maximum amount of memory for maintenance processes, such as VACUUM. Default value: 16 MB.
postgresql_effective_cache_size        | Tells the query planner how much memory it can expect to be available for disk caching for the database. Rule of thumb: set to approximately 50-75% on dedicated database server. Default value: 128 MB.
postgresql_random_page_cost            | Tells the query planner about the relative cost of random access versus sequential access. You could use a tool like fio to get an estimate, or use a ballpark estimate based on the type of storage of the database volume (e.g. 1.0 for SSD-based storage). Default value is 4.0.
postgresql_log_line_prefix:            | Format of log message prefix in the PostgreSQL log, for adding timestamps etc. to log messages. The default value adds a timestamp and process number, which is sufficient for most purposes. It might be useful to log additional information in specific situations, such as when troubleshooting database issues.
postgresql_log_min_duration_statement  | Minimum number of milliseconds for slow query logging (default: -1 / disabled)
postgresql_log_autovacuum_min_duration | Minimum number of milliseconds for logging slow autovacuum actions (default: -1 / disabled)
postgresql_timezone                    | Timezone that PostgreSQL uses. Defaults to Europe/Amsterdam.

### Postfix configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
enable_postfix               | Whether to enable the Postfix local MTA (default: false)
postfix_myhostname           | Hostname of server where Postfix will be installed (compulsory parameter if Postfix is enabled)
postfix_relayhost            | Relay host, the server that Postfix should send emails to (compulsory parameter if Postfix is enabled)
postfix_relayhost_port:      | Port of relay host (default: 587)
postfix_relayhost_username   | User name for authentication on relay host (compulsory parameter if Postfix is enabled)
postfix_relayhost_password   | Password for authentication on relay host (compulsory parameter if Postfix is enabled)
postfix_smtp_enable_tls      | Whether to enable TLS on connections to relay host. This also enables authentication on connections to the relay host (default: true)
postfix_enable_debugging     | This enables additional logging on connections to the relay host. Useful for troubleshooting. (default: false)
postfix_myorigin             | Sets origin domain for emails sent on the system. Defaults to the postfix_myhostname domain.
postfix_inet_protocols       | Refers to Postfix inet_protocols setting. Can be useful for running Postfix in IPv4 only mode, if no IPv6 connectivity is available (default: "all")

### DataCite Configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
datacite_username            | DataCite username
datacite_password            | DataCite password
datacite_prefix              | DataCite DOI prefix
datacite_rest_api_url        | DataCite REST API URL

### EPIC PID Configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
epic_url                     | EPIC PID server URI (undefined disables EPIC PID)
epic_handle_prefix           | EPIC PID prefix
epic_key                     | EPIC PID key (base64 encoded)
epic_cert                    | EPIC PID cert (base64 encoded)

# Data Access Tokens configuration

Variable                | Description
------------------------|------------------------------------
enable_tokens           | Boolean indicating if Data Access Tokens for webDAV and iCommands are enabled. Must be `true` or `false`
token_database          | Location of the database that contain the tokens
token_database_password | Token database password
token_length            | Length of data access tokens
token_lifetime          | Lifetime of data access tokens (in hours) (in hours)

### Public host configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
yoda_public_host             | Yoda public host
yoda_public_fqdn             | Yoda public fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
upload_priv_key              | Yoda public upload private key (base64 encoded)
upload_pub_key               | Yoda public upload public key (base64 encoded)

### External user service configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
yoda_eus_fqdn                | Yoda External User Service fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
eus_api_fqdn                 | External User Service API fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
eus_api_port                 | External User Service API port
eus_api_secret               | External User Service API secret
eus_db_password              | External User Service database password
eus_smtp_host                | External User Service SMTP host
eus_smtp_port                | External User Service SMTP port
eus_smtp_user                | External User Service SMTP user
eus_smtp_password            | External User Service SMTP password
eus_smtp_auth                | External User Service SMTP authentication (true/false, default: true)
eus_smtp_security            : External User Service SMTP encryption (tls/ssl/false, default: tls)
eus_smtp_from_address        | External User Service from address
eus_smtp_replyto_address     | External User Service replyto address
eus_mail_template            | External User Service mail template

## OpenId Connect configuration

Variable   | Description
-----------|---------------------------------------------
oidc_active         | Boolean indicating whether OpenId Connect with the following parameters is enabled of not. Must be `true` or `false`
oidc_domains        | Domains that should use OIDC (list)
oidc_client_id		| OIDC Client Id
oidc_client_secret	| OIDC Client Secret/Password
oidc_callback_url   | OIDC Callback url
oidc_auth_base_uri	| OIDC Authorization URI without parameters
oidc_login_hint     | Boolean indicating whether login hint should be added to Authorization URI (default: True)
oidc_token_uri		| OIDC Token URI
oidc_userinfo_uri	| OIDC Userinfo URI
oidc_scopes         | OIDC Scopes
oidc_acr_values		| OIDC Authentication Context Class Reference Values
oidc_email_field	| The identifier of the JSON field in the `id_token` containing the email address. Default: `email` the email address (default: email)
oidc_jwks_uri       | The url where the JWKS can be found (Java web key sets)
oidc_jwt_issuer     | The issuer of the JWT tokens ('iss' value in JWT, for verification)
oidc_req_exp        | Check that exp (expiration) claim is present
oidc_req_iat        | Check that iat (issued at) claim is present
oidc_req_nbf        | Check that nbf (not before) claim is present
oidc_verify_aud     | Check that aud (audience) claim matches audience
oidc_verify_iat     | Check that iat (issued at) claim value is an integer
oidc_verify_exp     | Check that exp (expiration) claim value is OK
oidc_verify_iss     | Check that iss (issue) claim is as expected

Commit message:

YDA-4769: implement RADIUS fallback for DAP
Implement temporary option to make DAP authentication fall
back to RADIUS authentication, so that users can use both
DAP and user/password authentication for WebDAV.

docs/administration/configuring-yoda.md, after:

---
parent: Administration Tasks
title: Configuring Yoda
nav_order: 0
---
# Configuring Yoda
Instructions on how to configure a (new) Yoda instance.

## 1. Create new environment
This first step is optional.
You can configure a (new) Yoda instance in an existing environment or create a new environment.
A `development` environment is available with two example instances.

To create a new environment make a new directory under `environments`.
For example a production environment:
```bash
mkdir environments/production
```

We call our new instance 'yoda', so create a new instance directory:
```bash
mkdir environments/production/yoda
```

In this new instance directory two directories are needed, on for the Yoda instance variables (group_vars) and one for host specific variables (host_vars).
```bash
mkdir environments/production/yoda/group_vars
mkdir environments/production/yoda/host_vars
```

## 2. Add hosts of new Yoda instance
Hosts of a Yoda instance are defined in the [Ansible inventory](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/intro_inventory.html) file 'hosts'.
For the development instance 'full' this inventory can be found in `environments/development/full/hosts`.
In the inventory the hosts of an instance are defined, their functional roles and to which groups they belong.

Example configuration defining the and functional roles of an instance called 'yoda':
```bash
[yoda:children]
yoda_portal
yoda_database
yoda_icat
yoda_resource
yoda_public
yoda_eus

[yoda_portal]
host1.yoda.test

# leave this out when using an existing database for ICAT
[yoda_database]
host1.yoda.test

[yoda_icat]
host1.yoda.test

[yoda_resource]
host2.yoda.test

[yoda_public]
host3.yoda.test

[yoda_eus]
host4.yoda.test
```

Add the new functional roles of the instance to the corresponding groups.
For example:
```bash
[portals:children]
yoda_portal

# leave this out when using an existing database for ICAT
[databases:children]
yoda_database

[icats:children]
yoda_icat

[resources:children]
yoda_resource

[publics:children]
yoda_public

[eus:children]
yoda_eus
```

It is possible to deploy davrods to a separate host by adding a davrods host and group:
```bash
[yoda:children]
yoda_portal
yoda_davrods
yoda_database
yoda_icat
yoda_resource
yoda_public
yoda_eus

[yoda_davrods]
host5.yoda.test

[davrods:children]
yoda_davrods
```

Last step to add the hosts of a new Yoda instance is to create configuration files for every new host.
In development environment these configuration files are placed in `environments/development/hosts`.
For example, for host 'host1.yoda.test' a configuration file is created:
```bash
touch environments/development/host_vars/host1.yoda.test
```

And place the basic host configuration in the new file:
```bash
---
ansible_host: host1.yoda.test
```

## 3. Configure (new) Yoda instance
To configure a (new) Yoda instance we have to edit the instance configuration in the Yoda instance variables directory (group_vars).
In case of a new Yoda instance we can copy a configuration of a full development (`environments/development/full/`) instance as base.
The configuration is split in several parts. Below an overview of these parts and the configuration options available.

### Ansible configuration

Variable   | Description
-----------|---------------------------------------------
ansible_user                 | Administrative user on instance for Ansible
ansible_ssh_private_key_file | Path to private key file of administrative user
repo_only                    | Only download packages from repos

Note: if one of these variables are different for a host then define them in the corresponding host specific variables file (host_vars).

### Yoda configuration

Variable   | Description
-----------|---------------------------------------------
instance                     | Name of Yoda instance, as defined in hosts file
yoda_version                 | Git branch, for example: development or release-0.9.7
yoda_environment             | Yoda environment: development, testing, acceptance or production
yoda_portal_fqdn             | Yoda Portal fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
yoda_davrods_fqdn            | Yoda Davrods WebDAV fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
yoda_davrods_anonymous_fqdn  | Yoda Davrods anonymous WebDAV fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
yoda_enable_httpd            | Whether to enable the httpd service (boolean, default value: true). Set to false if manual actions are needed before starting the web server (e.g. mounting encrypted volumes)
httpd_log_forwarded_for      | Whether to log X-Forwarded-For headers in Apache logs (boolean, default value: false). This logs source IP addresses of requests if requests to the Yoda web portal and/or WebDAV interface are routed via a load balancer.

### iRODS configuration

Variable                     | Description
-------------------------------------|---------------------------------
irods_admin                          | iRODS admin username
irods_password                       | iRODS admin password
irods_database_user                  | The iRODS database username
irods_database_password              | The password for the iRODS database username
irods_database_enable_yoda_indexes   | Enable indexes to speed up Yoda search operations (default: false). This is mainly useful for medium-sized and large environments (millions of data objects or more). Please note that the indexes can take up a significant amount of diskspace (rough estimate: 10-30% increase in database size). They will be created asynchronously. This can take some time on existing environments with a significant amount of data, and temporarily decrease performance.
irods_zone                           | The name of the iRODS Zone
irods_icat_fqdn                      | iRODS iCAT fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
irods_database_fqdn                  | iRODS database fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
irods_resource_fqdn                  | iRODS resource fully qualified domain name (FQDN). Don't define this variable if you have multiple resource servers.
irods_default_resc                   | iRODS default resource name
irods_resc_trigger_pol               | List of text patterns for matching non-primary resources where changes also need to trigger policies (e.g. asynchronous replication). Example: ["^testResc$","^myResc$"]
irods_ssl_verify_server              | Verify TLS certificate, use 'cert' for acceptance and production
irods_resources                      | Definition of iRODS resources of this Yoda instance
irods_service_type                   | Possible values: 'sysv' (System V) or 'systemd'
irods_max_open_files                 | Maximum number of open files for iRODS service (only effective when irods_service_type is set to 'systemd')
irods_enable_service                 | Whether to enable the iRODS service. Set to false if manual actions are needed before starting iRODS, e.g. mounting encrypted volumes (only effective when irods_service_type is set to 'systemd')
irods_rum_job_enabled                | Whether to enable the daily RUM job for removing unused metadata entries (default: true)
irods_rum_job_hour                   | Time to run RUM job - hour (default: 20)
irods_rum_job_minute                 | Time to run RUM job - minute (default: 0)

### Research module configuration

Variable   | Description
-----------|---------------------------------------------
default_yoda_schema          | Default Yoda XML scheme: default-0 or default-1
enable_revisions             | Enable revisions: yes (1) or no (0)
enable_async_replication     | Enable asynchronous replication cronjob: yes (1) or no (0)
revision_strategy            | Revision strategy: A, B, J or Simple
yoda_random_id_length        | Length of random ID to add to persistent identifier
yoda_prefix                  | Prefix for internal portion of persistent identifier
update_rulesets              | Update already installed rulesets with git
override_resc_install_rulesets | Install rulesets on server even if it is a resource server (default: false). This override parameter can be used on resource servers that have an additional role, e.g. DavRODS server
update_schemas               | Update already installed schemas, formelements and stylesheets: yes (1) or no (0)
credential_files             | Location of Yoda credentials files
temporary_files              | List of temporary files for cleanup functionality

### Deposit module configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------
enable_deposit               | Enable deposit module

### Intake module configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------
enable_intake                | Enable intake module
intake_groups                | List of intake groups (without the "grp-intake-" prefix)

### Datarequest module configuration

Variable                       | Description
-------------------------------|---------------------
enable_datarequest             | Enable datarequest module
datarequest_help_contact_name  | Help contact name
datarequest_help_contact_email | Help contact email address

### OpenSearch configuration

Variable                       | Description
-------------------------------|---------------------
enable_open_search             | Enable OpenSearch and indexing plugin
opensearch_server              | FQDN of the OpenSearch server (typically the provider)

### Yoda notifications configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
send_notifications           | Enable notifications: yes (1) or no (0)
notifications_sender_email   | Notifiations sender email address
notifications_reply_to       | Notifiations Reply-To email address

### Yoda internal SMTP settings configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
smtp_server                  | SMTP server to send mail to
smtp_username                | SMTP server username
smtp_password                | SMTP server password
smtp_auth                    | Whether to use SMTP authentication (true/false, default: true)
smtp_starttls                | Whether to force StartTLS on non-SMTP connections (true/false, default: true)

### PostgreSQL database configuration

Variable                               | Description
---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------
postgresql_max_connections             | Maximum number of database connections (default: 100)
postgresql_shared_buffers              | Amount of memory database should use for shared buffers. Rule of thumb: set to 25% of memory on dedicated database server; on a shared server, it should probably be lower. Default value: 32 MB.
postgresql_work_mem                    | Maximum amount of worker memory. Rule of thumb: increasing worker memory can help with improving performance, but it is necessary to ensure that sufficient memory is available, considering the maximum number of database connections. Default value: 1 MB.
postgresql_maintenance_work_mem        | Maximum amount of memory for maintenance processes, such as VACUUM. Default value: 16 MB.
postgresql_effective_cache_size        | Tells the query planner how much memory it can expect to be available for disk caching for the database. Rule of thumb: set to approximately 50-75% on dedicated database server. Default value: 128 MB.
postgresql_random_page_cost            | Tells the query planner about the relative cost of random access versus sequential access. You could use a tool like fio to get an estimate, or use a ballpark estimate based on the type of storage of the database volume (e.g. 1.0 for SSD-based storage). Default value is 4.0.
postgresql_log_line_prefix:            | Format of log message prefix in the PostgreSQL log, for adding timestamps etc. to log messages. The default value adds a timestamp and process number, which is sufficient for most purposes. It might be useful to log additional information in specific situations, such as when troubleshooting database issues.
postgresql_log_min_duration_statement  | Minimum number of milliseconds for slow query logging (default: -1 / disabled)
postgresql_log_autovacuum_min_duration | Minimum number of milliseconds for logging slow autovacuum actions (default: -1 / disabled)
postgresql_timezone                    | Timezone that PostgreSQL uses. Defaults to Europe/Amsterdam.

### Postfix configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
enable_postfix               | Whether to enable the Postfix local MTA (default: false)
postfix_myhostname           | Hostname of server where Postfix will be installed (compulsory parameter if Postfix is enabled)
postfix_relayhost            | Relay host, the server that Postfix should send emails to (compulsory parameter if Postfix is enabled)
postfix_relayhost_port:      | Port of relay host (default: 587)
postfix_relayhost_username   | User name for authentication on relay host (compulsory parameter if Postfix is enabled)
postfix_relayhost_password   | Password for authentication on relay host (compulsory parameter if Postfix is enabled)
postfix_smtp_enable_tls      | Whether to enable TLS on connections to relay host. This also enables authentication on connections to the relay host (default: true)
postfix_enable_debugging     | This enables additional logging on connections to the relay host. Useful for troubleshooting. (default: false)
postfix_myorigin             | Sets origin domain for emails sent on the system. Defaults to the postfix_myhostname domain.
postfix_inet_protocols       | Refers to Postfix inet_protocols setting. Can be useful for running Postfix in IPv4 only mode, if no IPv6 connectivity is available (default: "all")

### DataCite Configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
datacite_username            | DataCite username
datacite_password            | DataCite password
datacite_prefix              | DataCite DOI prefix
datacite_rest_api_url        | DataCite REST API URL

### EPIC PID Configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
epic_url                     | EPIC PID server URI (undefined disables EPIC PID)
epic_handle_prefix           | EPIC PID prefix
epic_key                     | EPIC PID key (base64 encoded)
epic_cert                    | EPIC PID cert (base64 encoded)

# Data Access Tokens configuration

Variable                | Description
------------------------|------------------------------------
enable_tokens           | Boolean indicating if Data Access Tokens for webDAV and iCommands are enabled. Must be `true` or `false`
token_database          | Location of the database that contain the tokens
token_database_password | Token database password
token_length            | Length of data access tokens
token_lifetime          | Lifetime of data access tokens (in hours) (in hours)
enable_radius_fallback  | Fall back on RADIUS authentication if token authentication fails (default: false). Only enables RADIUS fallback if `enable_tokens` is set to `true`.This is a legacy parameter that will be removed in a future version of Yoda.

### Public host configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
yoda_public_host             | Yoda public host
yoda_public_fqdn             | Yoda public fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
upload_priv_key              | Yoda public upload private key (base64 encoded)
upload_pub_key               | Yoda public upload public key (base64 encoded)

### External user service configuration

Variable                     | Description
-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------
yoda_eus_fqdn                | Yoda External User Service fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
eus_api_fqdn                 | External User Service API fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
eus_api_port                 | External User Service API port
eus_api_secret               | External User Service API secret
eus_db_password              | External User Service database password
eus_smtp_host                | External User Service SMTP host
eus_smtp_port                | External User Service SMTP port
eus_smtp_user                | External User Service SMTP user
eus_smtp_password            | External User Service SMTP password
eus_smtp_auth                | External User Service SMTP authentication (true/false, default: true)
eus_smtp_security            : External User Service SMTP encryption (tls/ssl/false, default: tls)
eus_smtp_from_address        | External User Service from address
eus_smtp_replyto_address     | External User Service replyto address
eus_mail_template            | External User Service mail template

## OpenId Connect configuration

Variable   | Description
-----------|---------------------------------------------
oidc_active         | Boolean indicating whether OpenId Connect with the following parameters is enabled of not. Must be `true` or `false`
oidc_domains        | Domains that should use OIDC (list)
oidc_client_id		| OIDC Client Id
oidc_client_secret	| OIDC Client Secret/Password
oidc_callback_url   | OIDC Callback url
oidc_auth_base_uri	| OIDC Authorization URI without parameters
oidc_login_hint     | Boolean indicating whether login hint should be added to Authorization URI (default: True)
oidc_token_uri		| OIDC Token URI
oidc_userinfo_uri	| OIDC Userinfo URI
oidc_scopes         | OIDC Scopes
oidc_acr_values		| OIDC Authentication Context Class Reference Values
oidc_email_field	| The identifier of the JSON field in the `id_token` containing the email address. Default: `email` the email address (default: email)
oidc_jwks_uri       | The url where the JWKS can be found (Java web key sets)
oidc_jwt_issuer     | The issuer of the JWT tokens ('iss' value in JWT, for verification)
oidc_req_exp        | Check that exp (expiration) claim is present
oidc_req_iat        | Check that iat (issued at) claim is present
oidc_req_nbf        | Check that nbf (not before) claim is present
oidc_verify_aud     | Check that aud (audience) claim matches audience
oidc_verify_iat     | Check that iat (issued at) claim value is an integer
oidc_verify_exp     | Check that exp (expiration) claim value is OK
oidc_verify_iss     | Check that iss (issue) claim is as expected
