docs/administration/installing-terms.md, before:

---
parent: Administration Tasks
title: Installing Terms & Conditions
nav_order: 4
---
# Installing Terms & Conditions
Terms and conditions for publication are also read from iRODS and presented to the user.
It needs to be an HTML snippet to be rendered correctly.
The naming scheme is up to the administrator, the last .html file placed in
`/rodsZone/yoda/terms` will become the text presented to the user.
In order for every user to be able to read the terms, a read ACL for public needs to be set.

```bash
iput -r /etc/irods/yoda-ruleset/tools/terms /${RODSZONE}/yoda
ichmod -rM inherit  /${RODSZONE}/yoda/terms
ichmod -rM read public /${RODSZONE}/yoda/terms
```

To add a new terms file just put it in the `/${RODSZONE}/yoda/terms` collection with a new name, so the old terms are preserved.

```bash
iput "${TERMS}.txt" "/${RODSZONE}/yoda/terms/${TERMS}.html"
```

All vault packages with an action log record "submitted for publication" from before the create time of the new terms file were accepted under the old terms.

Commit message:

add documentation for admin terms

docs/administration/installing-terms.md, after:

---
parent: Administration Tasks
title: Installing Terms & Conditions
nav_order: 4
---
# Installing Terms & Conditions
Terms and conditions for publication are also read from iRODS and presented to the user.
It needs to be an HTML snippet to be rendered correctly.
The naming scheme is up to the administrator, the last .html file placed in
`/rodsZone/yoda/terms` will become the text presented to the user.
In order for every user to be able to read the terms, a read ACL for public needs to be set.

```bash
iput -r /etc/irods/yoda-ruleset/tools/terms /${RODSZONE}/yoda
ichmod -rM inherit  /${RODSZONE}/yoda/terms
ichmod -rM read public /${RODSZONE}/yoda/terms
```

To add a new terms file just put it in the `/${RODSZONE}/yoda/terms` collection with a new name, so the old terms are preserved.

```bash
iput "${TERMS}.txt" "/${RODSZONE}/yoda/terms/${TERMS}.html"
```

Alternatively, from Yoda v1.10 onwards, managing publication terms is streamlined through a new GUI on the Administration page. Administrators can enter and save publication terms in the provided text windows. The terms are rendered as an html page, stored at `/var/www/yoda/config/publication_terms.html`.  See the picture below for an example:

![Example of Publication Terms GUI](./img/image_publication_terms.png)

All vault packages with an action log record "submitted for publication" from before the create time of the new terms file were accepted under the old terms.
