docs/design/metadata/metadata-form.md, before:

---
grand_parent: Software Design
parent: Metadata
---
# Metadata form implementation

This page contains implementation information about the metadata form functionality.

## Form functionality

The metadata form handling is implemented in a generic manner.   
In itself the generic metadata form deals with two situations, i.e.
- an editable form in which users can edit/add metadata to a datapackage
- a readonly view on this metadata as previously entered by a researcher

The generic (metadata) form deals with:
- Presenting a form for the metadata of a specific datapackage where the elements on the form are configurable dependent on category
- A default metadata form configuration when no metadata form configuration exists for a category or group
- Possibility to have dependencies between elements on the form in order to form clear relations between the data
- Determining completeness of the form and giving proper indications to the user dependent on the category a datapackage belongs to
- Determining validity of the metadata form data dependent on the category a datapackage belongs to
- Saving the metadata to a file in JSON format within the datapackage (`yoda-metadata.json`)
  This file can also be edited by regular users.
- When data is saved correctly, copy the metadata to AVUs so that metadata can be searched by users.
- Offering possibilities to, after correctly/successfully validating a metadata set, the result can be used for further actions.  Like the ability
    - to bring a datapackage / metadata to the vault from within the dynamic storage environment
    - to save several metadata files, with unique names, within the vault
- readonly view on metadata for a datapackage

## Integration of React form within Yoda

The directory `/research/metadata-form/src` in the Yoda portal repository contains Yoda-specific javascript code for the React form.

Commit message:

metadata form docs: copy edit

docs/design/metadata/metadata-form.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Software Design
parent: Metadata
---
# Metadata form implementation

This page contains implementation information about the metadata form functionality.

## Form functionality

The metadata form can be used in two ways. Firstly, regular users can use the form
to view and edit the metadata of a data package. Secondly, the form can show data package
metadata in readonly mode, if metadata cannot be edited by the present user.

The form can be configured using metadata schemas (see [schema configuration](schema-configuration.md)
for details). Based on the configured schema, the form shows feedback to the user
regarding the completeness and validity of entered metadata. If the metadata is complete
and valid, the user can save it. In that case, it is stored in a user-editable `yoda-metadata.json`
file, and also copied to iRODS metadata (AVUs) of the collection. After a user has entered metadata,
the data package can optionally be submitted to the vault for archiving and/or publication.

## Integration of React form within Yoda

The directory `/research/metadata-form/src` in the Yoda-portal repository contains Yoda-specific JavaScript code
for the React form.
