docs/development/docker-setup.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Running Yoda using Docker Compose
nav_order: 5
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---
# Running Yoda using Docker Compose

A Docker Compose configuration for running Yoda is available in the
`/docker` directory.

## Intended use and limitations

The configuration is intended for local development and testing.

Some components are not yet available in the containerized version of Yoda,
most importantly:
- The public server (landing pages and OAI-PMH). This also means the publication
  functions are not yet available.
- OpenSearch (used for searching in the deposit module)
- The configuration uses Mailpit for testing email delivery. Email delivery using
  Postfix is not yet available.
- The Docker Compose configuration has only the iRODS provider, there is no consumer
  for replication.

The cronjobs for revision creation, revision cleanup, archiving vault data etc. do not
run automatically, but need to be started manually in this configuration.

## Starting the application

If you haven't downloaded the Docker images yet, pull them first:

```bash
cd docker
docker-compose pull
```

The application can be started using docker compose:
```bash
docker-compose up
```

Removing and old instance of the application (including data):
```bash
docker-compose down -v
```

You need to have these entries in your /etc/hosts (or equivalent) file:

```
# Docker setup Yoda
127.0.0.1 portal.yoda eus.yoda data.yoda
```

After the application is started, the web interfaces will be available on:
- Mailpit: http://localhost:8025
- Portal: https://portal.yoda:8443
- EUS (port with API enabled): https://eus.yoda:8444
- DavRODS: https://data.yoda:8445


## Building the images

Building a new image is only needed for development purposes. If you want to test
an existing Dockerized version of Yoda, you can pull the images from the registry
instead.

### Yoda provider

```bash
cd docker/yoda_irods_icat
./stage-uploads.sh
./build.sh
```

### Mailpit

```bash
cd docker/mailpit
./build.sh
```

### Yoda portal

```bash
cd docker/yoda_portal
./build.sh
```

### DavRODS

```bash
cd docker/davrods
./build.sh
```

### External user service

```bash
cd docker/yoda_eus
./build.sh
```

Commit message:

Docker setup: add run-cronjob script

docs/development/docker-setup.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Running Yoda using Docker Compose
nav_order: 5
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---
# Running Yoda using Docker Compose

A Docker Compose configuration for running Yoda is available in the
`/docker` directory.

## Intended use and limitations

The configuration is intended for local development and testing.

Some components are not yet available in the containerized version of Yoda,
most importantly:
- The public server (landing pages and OAI-PMH). This also implies that publication
  functions are not yet available.
- OpenSearch (used for searching in the deposit module)
- The configuration uses Mailpit for testing email delivery. Email delivery using
  Postfix is not yet available.
- The Docker Compose configuration has only the iRODS provider, there is no consumer
  for replication.

The cronjobs for revision creation, revision cleanup, archiving vault data etc. do not
run automatically, but need to be started manually in this configuration. The `run-cronjob.sh`
shell script can be used as a quick way to start the most commonly used cronjobs, e.g.:

```
run-cronjob.sh revision
```

## Starting the application

If you haven't downloaded the Docker images yet, pull them first:

```bash
cd docker
docker-compose pull
```

The application can be started using docker compose:
```bash
docker-compose up
```

Removing and old instance of the application (including data):
```bash
docker-compose down -v
```

You need to have these entries in your /etc/hosts (or equivalent) file:

```
# Docker setup Yoda
127.0.0.1 portal.yoda eus.yoda data.yoda
```

After the application is started, the web interfaces will be available on:
- Mailpit: http://localhost:8025
- Portal: https://portal.yoda:8443
- EUS (port with API enabled): https://eus.yoda:8444
- DavRODS: https://data.yoda:8445


## Building the images

Building a new image is only needed for development purposes. If you want to test
an existing Dockerized version of Yoda, you can pull the images from the registry
instead.

### Yoda provider

```bash
cd docker/yoda_irods_icat
./stage-uploads.sh
./build.sh
```

### Mailpit

```bash
cd docker/mailpit
./build.sh
```

### Yoda portal

```bash
cd docker/yoda_portal
./build.sh
```

### DavRODS

```bash
cd docker/davrods
./build.sh
```

### External user service

```bash
cd docker/yoda_eus
./build.sh
```
