docs/design/publication_process.md, before:

# Publication Process
All state is kept in key-value-pair ``*publicationState`` and persisted into metadata after each step.
Configuration is pulled from metadata on the ``UUSYSTEMCOLLECTION`` iRODS collection and kept in ``*publicationConfig``.
Each step has a rule with the configuration and state as arguments.
Temporary collection will be rods owned and located at ``UUSYSTEMCOLLECTION/publish``.

**Precondition:**
- Vault package has ```APPROVED_FOR_PUBLICATION``` status
- Actor is rodsadmin

**Step 0:** Set publicationState.status to PROCESSING

**Step 1:** Load configuration from UUSYSTEMCOLLECTION
- DataCite credentials
- DataCite server
- public server
- moai server
- Yoda prefix
- DataCite prefix

**Step 2:** Generate Yoda DOI
- Generate Random ID
- set random ID in state
- Add prefixes
- Set Yoda DOI

**Step 3:** Determine Last Modification Time
- Add to State

**Step 4:** Generate Combi XML consisting of user and system metadata
- Save CombiXML in temporary collection
- Add path of CombiXML to state

**Step 5:** Generate DataCite XML from Combi XML
- Add DataCite XML to state
- On failure:
	- Flag package with unrecoverable failure
	- Bail

**Step 6:** Check if DOI is in use
- If in use:
	- remove DOI and RandomId from State
	- Flag package for retry
	- Bail
- If not in use:
	- Add DOI to metadata of Vault Package

**Step 7:** Send DataCite XML
- API request to metadata endpoint with DataCite XML
- put result in state
- On request failure:
	- Flag package for retry
	- Bail
- On metadata incorrect failure:
	- Flag package as unrecoverable
	- Bail

**Step 8:** Create Landing Page
- Use CombiXml to generate landing page
- Add landing page path to state
- On failure:
	- Flag package with unrecoverable failure

**Step 9:** Create Landing Page URL
- Use public host, prefixes and randomId for landing page url
	(Example: http://public.yoda.uu.nl/i-lab/UU01/Y7B2DD.html)
- On failure:
	- Should never fail at this stage

**Step 10:** Secure copy landing page to public server
- Use secure copy to push landing page
- On failure:
	- Flag package for retry


**Step 11:** Secure copy metadata for Yoda MOAI server
- Use secure copy to push combi XML to MOAI server
- On failure:
	- Flag package for retry

**Step 12:** Mint DOI with landing page
- API request to DOI end point with landing page url
- On failure:
	- Flag package for retry

**Step 13:** the vault package is given ```PUBLISHED``` status.

![Publication flow](img/publication-flow.png)

# Depublication process
This is very similar to the publication process. The DOI and URLs were preserved in the ```UUSYSTEMCOLLECTION``` metadata, and are reused by the depublication process.   
Depublication is performed with the differences noted below.

**Precondition:**
- Vault package has ```PENDING_DEPUBLICATION``` status
- Actor is rodsadmin

Step 2 of the publication process above is skipped. A DOI has already been generated.

**Step 4:** Generate Combi XML consisting only the system metadata, as the user metadata is being removed.

Step 5 and 6 of the publication process above are skipped.

**Step 7:** Remove DataCite metadata
- API request to remove metadata from Datacite
- put result in state
- On request failure:
	- Flag package for retry
	- Bail

Step 9 is skipped, the landing page URL has already been generated.

Step 12 is skipped, the DOI at DataCite has already been minted.

**Step 13:** the vault package is given ```DEPUBLISHED``` status.

# Republication process
The republication process is very similar to the publication process.  The DOI and URLs were preserved in the ```UUSYSTEMCOLLECTION``` metadata, and are reused by the republication process.

Precondition:
- Vault package has ```PENDING_REPUBLICATION``` status
- Actor is rodsadmin

Step 13: the vault package is given ```PUBLISHED``` status.

Commit message:

Document credential store usage in publication process.

docs/design/publication_process.md, after:

# Publication Process
All state is kept in key-value-pair ``*publicationState`` and persisted into metadata after each step.
Configuration is pulled from metadata on the ``UUSYSTEMCOLLECTION`` iRODS collection and kept in ``*publicationConfig``.
Credentials are pulled from the Yoda credential store (store_config.json).
Each step has a rule with the configuration and state as arguments.
Temporary collection will be rods owned and located at ``UUSYSTEMCOLLECTION/publish``.

**Precondition:**
- Vault package has ```APPROVED_FOR_PUBLICATION``` status
- Actor is rodsadmin

**Step 0:** Set publicationState.status to PROCESSING

**Step 1:** Load configuration from UUSYSTEMCOLLECTION
- public server
- moai server
- Yoda prefix
- DataCite prefix

**Step 2:** Generate Yoda DOI
- Generate Random ID
- set random ID in state
- Add prefixes
- Set Yoda DOI

**Step 3:** Determine Last Modification Time
- Add to State

**Step 4:** Generate Combi XML consisting of user and system metadata
- Save CombiXML in temporary collection
- Add path of CombiXML to state

**Step 5:** Generate DataCite XML from Combi XML
- Add DataCite XML to state
- On failure:
	- Flag package with unrecoverable failure
	- Bail

**Step 6:** Check if DOI is in use
- If in use:
	- remove DOI and RandomId from State
	- Flag package for retry
	- Bail
- If not in use:
	- Add DOI to metadata of Vault Package

**Step 7:** Send DataCite XML
- Retrieve DataCite url and DataCite credentials from credentials store
- API request to metadata endpoint with DataCite XML
- put result in state
- On request failure:
	- Flag package for retry
	- Bail
- On metadata incorrect failure:
	- Flag package as unrecoverable
	- Bail

**Step 8:** Create Landing Page
- Use CombiXml to generate landing page
- Add landing page path to state
- On failure:
	- Flag package with unrecoverable failure

**Step 9:** Create Landing Page URL
- Use public host, prefixes and randomId for landing page url
	(Example: http://public.yoda.uu.nl/i-lab/UU01/Y7B2DD.html)
- On failure:
	- Should never fail at this stage

**Step 10:** Secure copy landing page to public server
- Use secure copy to push landing page
- On failure:
	- Flag package for retry

**Step 11:** Secure copy metadata for Yoda MOAI server
- Use secure copy to push combi XML to MOAI server
- On failure:
	- Flag package for retry

**Step 12:** Mint DOI with landing page
- API request to DOI end point with landing page url
- On failure:
	- Flag package for retry

**Step 13:** the vault package is given ```PUBLISHED``` status.

![Publication flow](img/publication-flow.png)

# Depublication process
This is very similar to the publication process. The DOI and URLs were preserved in the ```UUSYSTEMCOLLECTION``` metadata, and are reused by the depublication process.   
Depublication is performed with the differences noted below.

**Precondition:**
- Vault package has ```PENDING_DEPUBLICATION``` status
- Actor is rodsadmin

Step 2 of the publication process above is skipped. A DOI has already been generated.

**Step 4:** Generate Combi XML consisting only the system metadata, as the user metadata is being removed.

Step 5 and 6 of the publication process above are skipped.

**Step 7:** Remove DataCite metadata
- Retrieve DataCite url and DataCite credentials from credentials store
- API request to remove metadata from Datacite
- put result in state
- On request failure:
	- Flag package for retry
	- Bail

Step 9 is skipped, the landing page URL has already been generated.

Step 12 is skipped, the DOI at DataCite has already been minted.

**Step 13:** the vault package is given ```DEPUBLISHED``` status.

# Republication process
The republication process is very similar to the publication process.  The DOI and URLs were preserved in the ```UUSYSTEMCOLLECTION``` metadata, and are reused by the republication process.

Precondition:
- Vault package has ```PENDING_REPUBLICATION``` status
- Actor is rodsadmin

Step 13: the vault package is given ```PUBLISHED``` status.
